Before we review more advanced concepts,
it's worth reminding ourselves that Kafka supports message expiration.
Kafka can expire messages based on time,
topics size, or both, as we learned.
Given that, if your topic settings are within the boundaries of your data removal goals,
this may be the simplest option.
For example, if a regulation requires that you must delete
data within 24 hours of a user request,
that your message expiration is 12 hours,
you can be sure that the users data will have already been
expired without requiring you to take any further action.
Unfortunately, it's not often the case that
expiration policies are in line with these kinds of deadlines.
In some cases, we won't have the luxury of using message expiration to manage user data.
When this occurs, we must use log compaction instead
of log expiration to manage a user's personal data.
As we reviewed earlier,
in a compacted topic,
you can continue to publish updates to a particular message as long as the keys match.
So as you can see here, we have a message A_1, B_2, and C_3.
Also recall, that a message with a matching key and a null value,
tells the Kafka broker that it should delete the key on the next compaction,
effectively deleting the message.
So here, we've now published the most recent message for A,
key A as null.
This indicates for the Kafka broker,
that both this message and this message,
because they both have key A,
should be deleted because it has a null value.
Leveraging this idea, we can see that we can publish
null messages for a user ID to delete the user's data.
We do have to keep in mind that there are log compaction timing settings on the topic.
So you'll also want to verify that these are set appropriately for your use case.
Otherwise, it may take too long for your data to be compacted and deleted.
One of the major problems with this approach however,
is that user data may be spread through many topics,
and not always keyed on the user ID.
So unfortunately, this strategy is typically not enough.